Do you want to know how to make your
websites look super premium and next
level? Well, it's actually just a few
super simple design techniques that most
people overlook. But instead of telling
you, I'm going to show you exactly what
I did to each one of these websites to
make [music] them look clean, modern,
and professional. And I'm even using a
really basic drag and drop tool called
Elementor to build these sites. So, you
don't need to know any coding in order
to pull off a professional look like
these. All right, let's get right into
it.
Okay, so number one is the use of
gradient backgrounds.
Flat colors like this are fine, but
gradient backgrounds just add so much
more life to your hero section, and
especially this where it's darker on the
outside and lighter on the inside. It
really helps draw the eye towards the
center. These backgrounds are ones that
I made myself in After Effects and then
I just baked them into the background of
the video, but you can make these inside
of Elementor. So, all you have to do is
just click on the section that you want
to edit and then just go over to style
and then you would just click on
gradient and then you can create a
gradient from here. All you do is just
edit these two colors here. And then you
can also change the type from linear to
radial. And now this is darker on the
outsides than it is on the inside. And
then all I did was just simply drop in
an image widget into the center. And
then I just replaced it with this fruit
which is on a transparent background.
And these gradients can be darker on the
outside than they are on the inside, or
they can just be a mix of different
colors. That really helps add a lot of
life to the background instead of just a
solid color. Now, this looks better, but
it still feels lifeless. So, the next
tip is to add motion. Motion gives your
site a lot of personality. And I found
these spinning fruit elements on
invato.com. So, I just went up here and
typed in spinning fruit.
And then you just come down here and
then you just filter by alpha channel.
And if you scroll down, you can find a
lot of awesome elements that you can
just throw right onto a gradient
background and use on your site. And
that's what I did here inside of After
Effects. And you don't need to use After
Effects. You can use any editor that
comes with your computer. It could be a
simple free one. You don't need
something like this. So I made it an
unlisted video on YouTube. And then I
just came over to my container, went
over to style, and then I just clicked
on video, and then just pasted that link
in right here. And I also add motion in
really subtle ways, too. So, if I go
over to this AI company website that I
made, and I move my mouse around, you
can see that these elements on screen
are kind of moving opposite to my mouse.
Or if I scroll down, the whole hero
section gets blurry as we go into the
next section. And that really helps draw
focus towards this next section. Or if I
go over to this lighting company website
that I made, you can see that if I
scroll down, the whole hero section gets
dark. It starts to dim as I go down. And
then my eye is more naturally drawn to
the next section. Or this outdoor
athletic brand that I've got here, you
can see that if I scroll down, this
whole window starts to move upwards and
kind of get out of the way. And it's
just a little bit of subtle movement,
but again, it really helps draw your eye
towards this next section. And if you
have Elementor Pro, you can achieve
effects like this by just going over to
the section that you want to animate and
clicking on it and then going over to
the advanced tab and then coming down to
motion effects. And here you can see
I've got the scrolling effects turned
on. So you've got scrolling and mouse
effects. I've got the scrolling effects
turned on and I've done a vertical
scroll here so that whenever I scroll
down this whole section kind of moves
up. This tab inside of Elementor Pro is
super super helpful. Also, if you want
Elementor Pro, I'll put a link down in
the description so you can go get that.
Okay, so the next tip is the use of
space. So, this is where a lot of
websites fail because they want to cram
as much useful information into one
section as possible so the viewer
doesn't miss anything. But in reality,
the opposite is true. It starts to feel
too crowded and it's kind of annoying to
skim and you don't know where to look.
So instead, I don't really add anything
to my hero section other than my
navigation menu and then whatever
product or service that I'm trying to
promote. And then same with the rest of
the website. I add a lot of padding
around all of my elements. And this just
gives each important element on your
website room to breathe. So you can
click on any section, container, or
element, and you can just click on it,
go over to advanced, and then you just
add padding around that. And then that
will just create space. And you can also
unlink these values and play with
separate ones. So you could do just top
and bottom and delete the right and
left. You'd be surprised how often more
space will just instantly fix the issue.
Also, if you want to learn how to use
Elementor like a true pro, I've got an
awesome tutorial for how to create a
WordPress website with Elementor down in
the description or you can just click on
the card at the top right of the screen.
I go much more in depth on how to master
Elementor to create beautiful websites
and I highly recommend it. Okay, so next
we have depth. And I add depth to my
websites in a couple of really subtle
ways. So the first is actually just
adding an image over top of a colored
box and then just offsetting it a little
bit so that it's not right inside of
this box. It's actually off to the side
and it feels like it's more in front of
this box. So if I reset this to put the
lighting fixture right in the middle of
this box, it doesn't look bad. it just
doesn't look as good as creating more
depth by moving this outside the box a
little bit. And again, same with this
one down here. The technique here is to
experiment playing outside of the lines.
If you're using the free version of
Elementor, you just click on the image
and then go over to advanced and then
click on layout and then you just unlink
the margins and then you can just play
with the values to offset them wherever
you want. And if you're using the paid
version of Elementor, what you do is
just click on the image and then go over
to transform and then you just come down
here to offset and then you can just
play with these values here by just
dragging the slider, which I think is a
lot easier. I also add depth in really
subtle ways as well. Like if I go over
here, you can see I've got a text shadow
behind this text and it kind of helps it
pop off the screen a little bit even
though that this is a white text on a
white background. Or if I go over to
this athletic brand that I was working
on, you can see that there's a box
shadow around this image and it just
helps it peel off the page a little bit
more. So to achieve an effect like this,
you just click on the image or
container, anything that you want to add
a shadow to and you just go over to
style and then you can see box shadow
down here. You just click on that and
then adjust accordingly. So you can see
if I move this up and down that box
shadow is getting bigger or smaller. So,
last but not least, we have color
cohesiveness or the use of a color
palette. So, for all my websites, I try
to pick three colors that match the
brand or product or service that I'm
promoting. So, you can see here for this
one, we've got this brown color here,
and then we've got a khaki color down
here, and then this really off-white
beige color. So, once you have the
colors that you like, just go ahead and
grab them, copy them, and then all you
got to do is just put them into a text
document. That way you can just copy and
use these anywhere on your website. And
I use them everywhere on my site,
including the text. And you can see on
my AI website that we've got this kind
of orangish reddish color. And if I
scroll down, I use that orange down in
this section as well. And this is only
two colors. This is just black and
orange. Or even websites with a lot of
color, like this ice cream website. You
can see I'm still using color
cohesiveness because I'm matching the
color of this text to the corresponding
fruit. So, same with the coconut and
same with the kiwi. And when you put all
five of these design principles to use,
you can get some really beautiful
websites. So, that's the secret behind
why my websites always look premium and
highquality. And again, if you want to
learn how to use Elementor like a pro, I
put an awesome Elementor tutorial in the
description [music]
or you can just click on the card right
on the screen. If you found this video
helpful, please hit that like button.
And if you want more design tips, feel
free to subscribe to the channel and
drop me a comment if there's any design
tips that you use that I could maybe
include on a part two to this video. All
right, my name's Dale and I will see you
on the next